One evening, Kojisteh consults with the parrot once again that she is about to leave to go
see her lover and the parrot tells her a story to give her advice on how she can be
successful. He tells her to act wisely so that she can avoid any possible misfortune and be
able to gain everything she desires. The parrot illustrates his advice with a story about a
Brahmin. Brahmins represent the top of the social and economic hierarchy in Vedic Hinduism
and are characterized as very intelligent. They are part of the Varna from which Hindu
priests are drawn, and they are responsible for teaching and maintaining sacred knowledge.
The Brahmin falls in love with the princess of Babylon who is part of the Kshatriya caste,
which is a doomed romance because marriages tend to be arranged by parents and it is frowned
upon to marry someone of a different caste. However, using his wit, the Brahmin ultimately
“[gets] possession not only of his beloved, but also of money and property, without suffering
any misfortune” (118). The parrot continues the story about how the Brahmin and the princess
fall in love at first sight when they meet in a garden one day. After parting ways, the
Brahmin decides he must find a way to reunite with the princess once again. The Brahmin seeks
help from a magician wearing an orange robe, who offers the Brahmin a solution to help him
find his lover. The magician gives the Brahmin a magic ball. He explains that if he puts the
ball in his mouth, everyone who encounters him will actually see him as a woman. The Brahmin
and the magician form a plan to approach the King of Babylon undercover in hopes of reuniting
the Brahmin and the princess. The Brahmin does as the magician says, and transforms himself
into a woman with long, dark hair and wearing a blue skirt, and they venture off to the
palace. The Brahmin, as a woman, and the magician arrive at the palace to meet with the King
of Babylon. While the Brahmin has been transformed into a woman, the magician has also
transformed himself into a Brahmin wearing red pants, so he is more respected by the King
than if he were just a magician. The magician (disguised as a Brahmin) introduces the woman
to the King as being his son’s wife. The magician (disguised as a Brahmin) explains to the
King wearing an orange robe, seated on his throne, that his son has left and he needs to go
search for him. He asks that the King allow his son’s wife to stay at the palace while he
searches for his son. The King graciously agrees as a favour to the magician and sends the
Brahmin (who is disguised as a woman) to stay with the princess and they become very close
friends. Eventually, the Brahmin probes the princess to learn about her secrets and the
princess reveals that she is in love with the Brahmin and explains her situation and longing
to be with him again. The Brahmin immediately takes the magic ball out of his mouth,
revealing his true identity to the princess. They are overjoyed and rekindle their love, but
they still must keep their love a secret. Still disguised as a woman, the Brahmin and the
princess continue to be best friends rather than lovers, and only they know the real truth.
One day, the Brahmin woman was bathing, and the King of Babylon’s son, who wears
an orange robe like his father’s but a different crown, was admiring her from the rooftop. He
becomes smitten with her and he falls in love at first sight. The princess discovers this and
is completely distraught that her brother has fallen in love with her lover. The Brahmin and
the princess decide it is best for them to escape and leave the palace so they can be
together without restraints. In a ploy to enable the couple to escape together, the magician
helps once again. He transforms both the Brahmin and the princess into men so they can leave
the palace unnoticed. In order to live happily ever after, they come up with another plan.
The magician, still disguised as a Brahmin, once again approaches the King of Babylon to
retrieve his son’s wife whom he had left with the King earlier in the story. However, since
the Brahmin and the princess had successfully escaped, the King explains that she has
disappeared. Upon hearing this, the magician falls to his knees while holding a gold knife
and he threatens to stab himself to death. In response, the King offers compensation by
giving the magician a huge fortune. One of the King’s servants brings the magician a huge
bowl full of gold, and the magician gives the Brahmin and the princess the gold. With their
new-found fortune, they live happily ever after in freedom without any restraints on their
love. By the end of the story, the sun began to rise and Kojisteh deferred
her visit to her lover once again.